GPT Image 2 is OpenAI's new flagship
image model and it's a step up across
the board. Improved text rendering,
dense layouts, photorealism,
multilingual support, instruction
following, and aspect ratios. And so, in
this video, we're breaking down every
major improvement. And if you want to
try GPT Image 2 for yourself, you can
click the first link in the description
down below to use it inside of Eleven
Creative. The headline feature is text
rendering. GPT Image 2 is reported at
99% text accuracy, up from roughly 60 to
70% on previous models. This means that
menus, magazine covers, product labels,
UI screenshots, etc. all come out usable
with the first generation. And so,
anyone making marketing assets, this
alone is a major win. And speaking of
menus and magazine covers, GPT Image 2
has heavily improved its typographic
hierarchy. This means that it's much
better at dense layouts and composition,
things like headlines, subheads, body
copy, captions, quotes, etc. They all
sit and feel in the right place within
your design, making the design of your
generations a lot nicer because GPT
Image 2 is much better at dense layouts
and composition. One of the next major
improvements is photorealism. GPT Image
2 outputs are actually very realistic
and they look like photographs. And
what's really cool is that if you
include camera and film references in
your prompt, the model can reliably
encode color science, grain, depth of
field, etc. So, you can get much more
aesthetic visuals and generations that
look real. After that, we've also got
multilingual improvements. So, GPT Image
2 can now also generate non-Latin text
properly. So, Japanese, Korean, Chinese,
Hindi, and Bengali should all come out
much better in the generations. And the
cool part is they don't just translate
it and drop it in, but it's integrated
into the design itself. This allows you
to translate assets and graphics and
generate posters, menus, and ads in
multiple different languages while still
having it look nice. After that, the
next improvement is spatial reasoning.
There's a big step up here because you
can prompt things like a red cube on a
blue sphere inside a pyramid with green
light from the left casting a sign
shadow and the model actually gets the
relationships correct. So, GPT Image 2
is much better at handling prompts with
multiple objects, specific placements,
lighting directions, material properties
all within the same generation and
respecting the relationship between all
of those. The model treats mixed
lighting as technical instructions and
not just approximations. So, it's much
better at handling the relationship
between light bouncing off of metallic
surfaces and glass refractions. GPT
Image 2 now also finally has flexible
aspect ratios that go 3:1 wide and 1:3
tall. So, you can finally do banners,
vertical stories, and all the formats
that you couldn't do before. Resolution
goes all the way up to 4K and it's
running roughly two times faster than
GPT Image 1.5. And this is what finally
makes GPT Image 2 usable across
marketing creation within your workflow
because it's much more realistic and
it's much faster and you can generate
all of the formats that you need. Now,
if we're being critical, after doing
some intensive prompting, there are a
few things that the model still isn't
great at. So, for example, if we look at
these two generations here, I much
prefer the GPT Image 2 generation, but
the sun is behind the car and therefore
we shouldn't be seeing this orange shine
on the other side of the car. We've also
found that dense and repetitive textures
like sand grains in the generations,
they can get a little bit mushy and lose
detail. And GPT Image 2 has a slight
tendency to generate darker images
compared to other models like Nano
Banana 2 or Nano Banana Pro, but this
isn't necessarily a bad thing, just more
of a stylistic choice. And while it's
better at multilingual text, it still
struggles having multiple different
languages within the same prompt as we
can see from this generation right here.
GPT Image 2 was consistently getting the
languages and a few other details wrong
for this particular example, but it's
worked very well on others. And when
there is just one language, it is much
better. And to give you one last
example, if we compare this prompt for
GPT Image 1.5 and GPT Image 2, the GPT
Image 2 version is much more complete
and makes a lot more sense. On the 1.5
version, we've got the left and right
profile which are the same profile, but
it doesn't make that mistake on the GPT
Image 2 version. There's also a lack of
realism in the eyes in the generation of
the actual character itself and it's
just a much more thorough layout from
the GPT Image 2 version. But we'd love
to know what you think. If you haven't
tried it yet, you can click the first
link in the description down below to
try out GPT Image 2 inside of Eleven
Creative. Drop your thoughts in the
comments and if you want to see more
videos like this where we break down
models and show you how to use them, hit
that like button and don't forget to
subscribe. Thanks for watching.